DOCS-1671 - Add Views Visibility doc (Private Preview) (#6756)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/manage/views-visibility.md

## What are views?

A view is a named index that stores the results of queries over time. A single view can have multiple data sources contributing to it. The unified **Views** page gives you complete visibility into what is writing to each view and which data sources are associated with it.

:::note
Partitions are not included in the **Views** page. They are managed separately through the [Partitions](/docs/manage/partitions/) page.
:::

## Key capabilities

- Visibility of all indexes is based on admin-created roles and permissions.
- You can delete or decommission user-created indexes.
- You can view the schema of each view and see views in search autocomplete based on your access.
- As an administrator, you can view existing system limits for each type and the amount of consumed quota.
- Only administrators can define access control on indexes.
- Only scheduled searches with the **Save to Index** alert type are visible in Views.

## Data source types

The **Views** page tracks three types of data sources:

| Data Source | Description |
|:--|:--|

> | [**Scheduled Views**](/docs/manage/views/scheduled-views/) | Predefined views that run on a schedule and store aggregated query results to an index. This is the default selection when you open the **Views** page. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [**Scheduled Views**](/docs/manage/scheduled-views/) | Predefined views that run on a schedule and store aggregated query results to an index. This is the default selection when you open the **Views** page. |
```

| [**Scheduled Searches**](/docs/alerts/scheduled-searches/) | Saved searches configured to run at a specified frequency and save results to a view via notifications. |
| **Ad Hoc Searches** | Arbitrary queries run using the `save` view operator that write results to a view. Tracking for ad hoc searches is available from April 2026 onwards. Data written before this date may not be fully traceable. |

## How to access the Views page

> [**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Data Management**, then under **Logs** select **Views**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Views**.<br/>[**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Manage Data > Logs > Views**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/views/views-page.png')} style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} alt="views-page" width="800"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Data Management**, then under **Logs**, select **Views**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Views**.<br/>[**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Manage Data > Logs > Views**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/views/views-page.png')} style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} alt="views-page" width="800"/>
```

:::note
The page opens with **Scheduled Views** selected as the default data source.
:::

## How to use the Views page

The **Views** page lists all views in your organization. For each view, you can see the associated data sources and their types.

To explore data sources for a view:

1. Select a data source type from the top of the page: **Scheduled Views**, **Scheduled Searches**, or **Ad Hoc Searches**.
1. The listing updates to show views associated with the selected data source type.
1. Click a view to see its details, including all data sources contributing to it.

## How to add a Scheduled View

:::important

> To create a Scheduled View you must be an admin or have the Manage Scheduled Views [role capability](/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a scheduled view, you must be an admin or have the Manage Scheduled Views [role capability](/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/).
```

> To create a scheduled view, you must be an admin or have the Manage Scheduled Views [role capability](/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/).

Author: ```suggestion
To create a scheduled view, you must be an admin or have the Manage Views [role capability](/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/).
```

:::

> For scheduled view query requirements, see [Scheduled Views Best Practices and Examples](/docs/manage/views/scheduled-views/best-practices).

Author: ```suggestion
For scheduled view query requirements, see [Scheduled Views Best Practices and Examples](/docs/manage/scheduled-views/scheduled-views-best-practices/).
```

> For Scheduled View query requirements, see [Scheduled Views Best Practices and Examples](/docs/manage/views/scheduled-views/best-practices).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For scheduled view query requirements, see [Scheduled Views Best Practices and Examples](/docs/manage/views/scheduled-views/best-practices).
```

1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Manage Data > Logs > Views**. <br/>[**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui). In the top menu select **Configuration**, and then under **Logs** select **Scheduled Views**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Scheduled Views**.
1. Click **+ Add View**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/views/view-page-add-new.png')} alt="view-page" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="800"/>
1. Enter the following fields to create the scheduled view:

>     1. **Name**. Enter a name for the view. You will use this name in queries to search the view, so use a name that is descriptive and easy to remember. Names can contain alphanumeric characters; underscores (`_`) are the only special characters allowed. View names can only have (A-Z, a-z, 0-9), $, and _ after the first letter.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. **Name**. Enter a name for the view. You will use this name in queries to search the view, so use a name that is descriptive and easy to remember. Names can contain alphanumeric characters; underscores (`_`) are the only special characters allowed.
```

>     1. **Name**. Enter a name for the view. You will use this name in queries to search the view, so use a name that is descriptive and easy to remember. Names can contain alphanumeric characters; underscores (`_`) are the only special characters allowed. View names can only have (A-Z, a-z, 0-9), $, and _ after the first letter.

Reviewer: Sentences contradict each other:

"Names can contain alphanumeric characters; underscores (`_`) are the only special characters allowed. View names can only have (A-Z, a-z, 0-9), $, and `_` after the first letter."

The first sentence says only `_` is a valid special character; the second adds `$`. One of these is wrong, and a user following the first rule will think `$` is invalid. The author should verify which characters are actually allowed in the product and remove the incorrect sentence.

    1. (Optional) **Data Forwarding**. Choose **Enable Data Forwarding** to [forward data from Sumo to Amazon S3](/docs/manage/data-forwarding). The results from the Scheduled View are forwarded to S3. Raw logs are sent if the view query does not use an aggregate operator. If the view query performs an aggregation, aggregate results are sent. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/views/add-view.png')} alt="add-view" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>
1. Click **Save**.

The view begins to index data as soon as you create it. Allow a few hours for the indexing to complete. If you have chosen to index a large amount of data and/or have chosen a long date range for the view, it could take longer.

Once created, scheduled views are updated once per minute.

## How to view information about views

The page has information about viewing information about the views/indexes configured for your organization.

:::note

> Ensure you have **View Scheduled Views** [role capability](/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/) to view information about scheduled views.

Author: ```suggestion
Ensure you have **View Views** [role capability](/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/) to view information about scheduled views.
```

1. To view details of a view configuration, click the row containing the view. A pane will appear on the right side of the page with the following information.
    * **Name**. Displays the name of the view.
    * **Data Sources - Scheduled View**. Displays the scheduled views associated with the selected view/index.
        * **View Source ID**. Unique ID for each scheduled view, used for faster debugging and improved internal operation efficiency. With the scheduled view ID, you can collect the details and update the scheduled view directly using the API.
        * **Status**. Indicates whether the scheduled view is currently Completed, Failed, Not Started, Filling, or Paused.
        * **Query**. The query that returns the data for the scheduled view.
        * **Search Mode**. Indicates the type of search mode, such as Manual Mode or Auto Parse Mode.
        * **Run Frequency**. Displays the frequency of run to collect the data.
        * **Start Date**. Date when data was first added to the scheduled view.

>         * **Lag Time**. If the scheduled view is not up-to-date, **Lag Time** contains the actual lag time. For more information, see [Scheduled View Lag Time](/docs/manage/views/scheduled-views/lag-time).

Author: ```suggestion
        * **Lag Time**. If the scheduled view is not up-to-date, **Lag Time** contains the actual lag time. For more information, see [Scheduled View Lag Time](/docs/manage/scheduled-views/scheduled-view-lag-time).
```

- **Scheduled Views per organization**. Each organization can have a maximum of 500 scheduled views.
- **All other views per organization**. All other view types are limited to a maximum of 50 per organization.

## FAQ

### What is the difference between the Views page and the Scheduled Views page?

The **Views** page replaces the **Scheduled Views** page and provides a unified interface that consolidates all view types, including scheduled views, scheduled searches, and ad hoc searches, into a single listing. The previous **Scheduled Views** page only showed scheduled views, requiring you to switch between pages to manage different view types. The new **Views** page removes that context switching by bringing everything into one place.

### What data source types are visible on the Views page?

The **Views** page displays three data source types: **Scheduled Views**, **Scheduled Searches**, and **Ad Hoc Searches**. Scheduled Views is the default selection when you open the page. A single view can have multiple data sources contributing to it, and all contributing sources are visible in the right-side details pane when you click a view.

> ### How to control who can see which views?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do I control who can see which views?
```

Visibility of all indexes is based on roles and permissions defined by your administrator. Only administrators can define access control on indexes. Contact your Sumo Logic administrator to request access to specific views or to update role capabilities.

> ### How to check the system limits for views in your organization?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do I check the system limits for views in my organization?
```

Administrators can view existing system limits for each view type and the amount of consumed quota directly from the **Views** page. The default limits are 1,000 views per organization across all types, 500 scheduled views, and 50 for all other view types. To request a limit increase, contact your Sumo Logic account representative.

> ### How to identify why ad hoc search data is missing or approximate?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do I identify why ad hoc search data is missing or approximate?
```

---
id: views-visibility
title: Views Visibility

> sidebar_label: Views Visibility

Reviewer: no need for this since it's identical to the title

```suggestion
```

description: Learn how to use the unified Views page in Sumo Logic to discover, filter, and manage all your views and their data sources from a single interface.
keywords:
  - views
  - views visibility
  - scheduled views
  - adhoc views
  - data management
---

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href={useBaseUrl('docs/preview')}><span className="preview-private">Private Preview</span></a></p>

:::info
This feature is in Private Preview. For more information, contact your Sumo Logic account representative.
:::

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> The Views page provides a unified interface to discover, filter, and manage all your views and their associated data sources in one place. It replaces the previous Scheduled Views page and consolidates all view types, including scheduled views, scheduled searches, and adhoc searches, into a single listing under Data Management.

Reviewer: - Pls capitalize and bold if referring to the UI element/buttons, etc. 
- ad hoc is always two separate words

```suggestion
The **Views** page provides a unified interface to discover, filter, and manage all your views and their associated data sources in one place. It replaces the previous **Scheduled Views** page and consolidates all view types, including scheduled views, scheduled searches, and ad hoc searches, into a single listing under **Data Management**.
```

## What are views?

A view is a named index that stores the results of queries over time. A single view can have multiple data sources contributing to it. The unified Views page gives you complete visibility into what is writing to each view and which data sources are associated with it.

:::note
Partitions are not included in the Views page. They are managed separately through the [Partitions](/docs/manage/partitions/) page.
:::

## Key capabilities

- Visibility of all indexes is based on admin-created roles and permissions.
- You can delete or decommission user-created indexes.

> - You can view the schema of each view and see views in search autocomplete based on your access.

Reviewer 2: Didn't understand, where can we view the schema in that page, am I missing something ?

Author: I guess this is as part of the last year call discussion with the dev. I am unable to see this in the UI will remove it.

> - You can save a query and reuse it later by adding `| save as <view name>` at the end of your query.

Reviewer 2: this is not something we would want to encourage. Users should use saved search instead. We want to reduce the usage of adhoc data ingestion imo

- As an administrator, you can view existing system limits for each type and the amount of consumed quota.
- Only administrators can define access control on indexes.
- Only scheduled searches with the **Save to Index** alert type are visible in Views.

## Data source types

The Views page tracks three types of data sources:

| Data Source | Description |
|:--|:--|
| **Scheduled Views** | Predefined views that run on a schedule and store aggregated query results to an index. This is the default selection when you open the Views page. |

> | **Scheduled Searches** | Saved searches configured to run at a specified frequency and save results to a view via notifications. |

Reviewer 2: We can perhaps hyperlink to their dedicated page ?

- **Scheduled Views per organization**. Each organization can have a maximum of 500 scheduled views.
- **All other views per organization**. All other view types are limited to a maximum of 50 per organization.

## FAQ

### What is the difference between the Views page and the Scheduled Views page?

The Views page replaces the Scheduled Views page and provides a unified interface that consolidates all view types, including scheduled views, scheduled searches, and adhoc searches, into a single listing. The previous Scheduled Views page only showed scheduled views, requiring you to switch between pages to manage different view types. The new Views page removes that context switching by bringing everything into one place.

### What data source types are visible on the Views page?

The Views page displays three data source types: **Scheduled Views**, **Scheduled Searches**, and **Adhoc Searches**. Scheduled Views is the default selection when you open the page. A single view can have multiple data sources contributing to it, and all contributing sources are visible in the right-side details pane when you click a view.

> ### How to save a query to a view in Sumo Logic?

Reviewer 2: Same point, I doubt this should be mentioned

To save a query to a view, add `| save as <view name>` at the end of your search query. This creates an adhoc search that writes results to the specified view. You can then reuse the view name in future queries to reference the saved data.

### How to control who can see which views?

Visibility of all indexes is based on roles and permissions defined by your administrator. Only administrators can define access control on indexes. Contact your Sumo Logic administrator to request access to specific views or to update role capabilities.

### How to check the system limits for views in your organization?

> Administrators can view existing system limits for each view type and the amount of consumed quota directly from the Views page. The default limits are 1,000 views per organization across all types, 500 scheduled views, and 50 for all other view types. To request a limit increase, contact your Sumo Logic account representative.

Reviewer 2: not sure of this, if you are aware fine, else let me know if I should cross check

Author: @ssharma-sumologic I got this as part of the last year call discussion with the dev. Can you please confirm if it is still the same?
